9 am stand up 


Sales Team meeting - 11am 

	Number of clients - up and down the UK
	Interviews set up with existing clients' 
	Will have interviews during the training  
	Roll into job at the end of training 
	Small coding test 
	Research on the company 
	Be honest
	Who you are and why you are here 


12 pm SQL 
    
    Thursday presentation on joins , hand on joins 

13:38 
- SQL Practise - Databases

Database 
	
	- Collection of data that is organised  
	Store it in an more organised way, allows for efficient retrieval 

	We must be able to structure tables to contain the right type of information, so that we can query it 
	Structure is important 

	USE - Specifies the database you want to use

	Entity is any thing we want to model - aka a customer in a database 

	Relational databases contains connected data
	

Terminology
	
	Column - Database tables are composed of individual columns corresponding to the attributes of the object 
	Row - A row consists of one set of attributes corresponding to one instance that a table describes. Know as records/tuples
	Table - A table is a predefined format of rows and columns that define an entity. Know as a file 
	DBMS - A Database management system allows a computing to perform database functions of storing, retrieving, adding, deleting and modifying data
	
Types of Database
	
	Flat-file Database
		Stores everything in one table. Good for small numbers of records related to a single topic 
	Relational Database
		Gives you the ability to separate masses of data into numerous tables
		The are linked to each other through the use of keys
	Big Data
		MongoDB, Vertica
		Used for Data Analytics and Business Intelligence
		Digital age and IOT - Internet of things 
	

Terms
Rule of Breaking Down Tables

If there is duplicated data, that is a sign that tables can be broken down further.

Best Practise

	Ensure tables are labelled so people have an idea of the content before reading the table.
	Duplicated data is to be avoided.
	Primary keys are part of the design and should be chosen so that it wont change in the future. Must be permanent and static.
	
Foreign Keys 

	- Foreign keys are the columns of a table that points to the primary key of another table. They act as a cross-reference between tables.
	
One to One relationship 

	- Where there is one row in one entity can be linked to only one row in another entity.
	
One to Many Relationship 

	- In a relational database, a one-to-many relationship exists when one row in table A may be linked with many rows in table B, but one row in table B is linked to only one row in table A. (EXAMPLE: One customer can have many purchases)
	
Many to Many Relationship 

	- A many-to-many relationship refers to a relationship between tables in a database when a parent row in one table contains several child rows in the second table, and vice versa. Many-to-many relationships are often tricky to represent. (EXAMPLE: A database used by a school application can be taken as an example. Two of the tables it contains are "Student" and "Subject." In real life, a student will take several subjects simultaneously, while a subject will be studied by several students at a time. This is a many-to-many relationship.)
	
Junction Table 

	- When you need to establish a many-to-many relationship between two groups, the simplest solution is to use a Junction Table.

A Junction Table (sometimes referred to as a "Bridge Table") 

	is a table that contains references to both groups; bridging them together. (Example: Where there is a many to many relationship you can make a junction table with the primary keys of the tables, then form a junction table. This table then forms a composite primary key.
	
Candidate Primary key 

	- If there are multiple choices for being a primary key, then all the options are called candidates for being the primary key

Primary key constraints

	A primary key must be unique 
	Must always have an entry - cannot be null 
	The value must never change 
	Each table may have a max of one primary key 


ERD Diagram 

Primary Key
	
	The primary Key uniquely identifies each record in the table
	Most table should have a primary key
	Each table can have more than one column which is part of its Primary Key (Composite key) 
		- Order No + Order Line No 
	It can either be an attribute that is guaranteed to be unique or it can be generated by DBMS
	The DBMN will enforce the uniqueness of the Primary key, allowing repeated records to exist in the table



Foreign Key 
	
	Natural relations exists between table in most database structures, foreign keys are used to create solid relationships 
	Foreign keys ensures that the row of information in Table A corresponds to the correct row of information in table B
	The constraints is used to prevent actions that would destroy links between tables
	It prevents invalid data from being inserted into the foreign key column, because it has to be one of the values contains in the table it points to
	There is no Uniqueness constraint for foreign keys
	A table can have any number foreign keys
	A row cannot be deleted from a reference table if it is in use via a foreign key 
